---
layout: post
published: true
title: 'Pay attention'
slug: "adhd"
date: '2013-04-24 23:30 -04:00'
tags: "programming adhd editorials"
---
## I was diagnosed with ADHD when I was 8 years old. Growing up with it hasn't been easy, it has gotten easier but I still have bad days.

I'm not having a productive night. I'm not interested in working on any of the open-source projects that I maintain, I don't feel like working on any of the games that we're making at Frag Castle, I don't even feel like writing this post. But, I'm pretty sure that this is the only thing I'll get done tonight.

Why? Because it's interesting. And I just put my headphones on.

I started the day driving into work thinking about how to calculate the damage per second that the player is receiving in Frag Castle's new "Smash TV in space" game: "Final Frontier: First Contact".

I was thinking about having a solution where I would create an array of 10 `float` values - one for each second, and use that to compute the DPS by taking the values, summing them and then dividing by ten, giving me the average DPS over the last 10 seconds. It seemed like a reasonable solution and I started thinking about the actual lines of code that I would need to write.

And now it's 11:30pm and I haven't gotten much farther than that. Every time I try to write a line of code I get side-tracked. I'd want to check my email, or look at twitter, or the television, or anything other than those stupid lines of code.

It's like trying to run up a down escalator. Constantly fighting against my own head because my head can't filter the outside world out. ADHD - Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder is an odd brain imbalance. At it's core it means that I have a hard time focusing on things, but it also means that when I do focus, I have a hard time un-focusing. Things that get my attention often win out over other stimulae.

Example, if the TV is on in a room and I am looking at it I won't be able to hear what my wife is saying. The only thing that will draw me away is her calling my name and asking me "What did I just say?". I usually look away, embarassed and tell her that I didn't hear her.

#### Coping

I wear headphones a lot. Like, all the time. They really help me block out the rest of the world and focus on what I'm supposed to be doing. Left to my own devices I wouldn't get anything done. I wear them when I workout, write code, blog posts, do the dishes, clean the house, shop for groceries, everywhere.

I also take every opportunity to remove myself from potentially distracting events: people chatting near a cubicle, long meetings, anywhere there is a TV on because I know these things will suck my attention away and I won't get my tasks done. Interuptions are the same thing: I'll frequently tell people to come back later, or even squat in a conference room with the lights off to ensure I'm not distracted/interrupted.

Getting back on track is just as hard as staying focused. I won't start a conversation until I get to a point where I know I can stop and dedicate myself to it. Otherwise I'll be back at square one when I turn back to my laptop.

It's not all downside though. When I do get into "the zone" I can be there for hours, usually the better part of a day. It's an intense focus that consumes everything I'm doing. My wife likes to joke that the house could fall down around me and I'd still be coding. I hope it's not _that_ deep but it's a very intense feeling and I think that is the reason I enjoy doing what I do so much. It's an addicting feeling.

#### Relapsing

Sometimes I'll catch myself staring at my computer screen, not reading it, but staring off into space and I'll wonder how long I've been doing it. Other times I'll wander out to where I hear people laughing/chatting and lose myself in those conversations for way too long.

When these "relapses" happen, I'll go back to my desk, grab my laptop and headphones, find the nearest abandoned conference room and get things done.
