---
layout: post
published: true
title: 'ADHD and the office'
slug: "adhd-office"
date: '2013-05-20    23:30 -04:00'
tags: "programming adhd editorials"
---
## Wherein I share some of the methods I use to keep myself focused in the chaos that is the office.

A few weeks ago I [wrote a post about how I was struggling with my ADHD](http://codeimpossible.com/2013/04/24/adhd). A reader commented and got me talking and thinking about all the ways that I setup my work environment to combat my ADHD. Some of them obvious and some of them - until now - completely covert.

#### Single monitor
On the previous post I commented that I always prefer a single monitor at work and that multiple monitors make it hard to focus. I didn't always feel this way, it's something that I realized in the past three or four years. Everytime I would add a second monitor to my machine my productivity would fall off.

Mostly because I would pull up other non-work sites, twitter/hacker news I'm looking at you, on the second monitor and then become distracted.

Also, [@Eaterofcorpses](https://twitter.com/EaterOfCorpses) suggests [wearing a hoodie](http://codeimpossible.com/2013/04/24/adhd/#comment-895873791) to help with focusing.

#### Don't visit social media sites during work
I try hard - and often fail - to keep tweetdeck closed at work, only opening it up during a lunch break or when I need to rest my head for a bit. Thankfully, I don't have a facebook account so I don't have to worry about this. I do share my personal skype with work so I setup custom notifications on my work machine where I'm not notified when my friends chat, unless they mention my name.

#### Sit away from a window or heavy traffic area
This is a trick I got from high school. It was easier for me to listen to my high-school teachers when I sat in a spot where I couldn't see out a window and where the hallway was not visible. I try to make the same choices at work but sometimes it just isn't an option. Currently, I sit right next to a giant row of windows, but thankfully they overlook our parking lot and that isn't very interesting ;)

However, if I find that I'm looking out the window too much I do ask my neighbors if it's alright if I shut the blinds for a bit, or I'll pickup my laptop and squat in a conference room until I feel like I've made good progress.

#### It's ok to hide
When I feel like I'm just not able to keep a handle on the distractions or I'm getting a bit of sensory overload I will schedule a fake meeting and hide in a conference room for the remainder of the day. Don't feel guilty about taking the steps you need to get your work done.

#### No Tv. Ever.
When I'm working I don't have the TV on. I don't put a movie on in the corner of my monitor. In fact, in my office at home I sit with my back to the TV so I have to make a concious decision between watching the TV and getting work done. TV/Movies are an instant distraction to me. They are constantly moving, sound producing light boxes and I find it really hard to look away from them sometimes.

#### Work mode has to be easy to get into
If I have to perform a lot of tasks to get my environment ready, or one of the tasks takes more than a few minutes to complete - like a long running build - chances are I will get distracted reading reddit or twitter or hacker news. I try to remove a lot of these steps from my setup/build. When I work on a project I'll often take a lot of interest in the build process because I want it to take less time so I can lower the chances of being distracted.

So write as many scripts as you need to to get work mode setup. Streamline configurations/setups so you can get right into work mode and not get sidetracked.

If you don't think your office/team will go for it, pitch it to them when you are planning your work. You might be surprised how many of your teammates back you up.

#### Chatter
I find that it's super easy for me to get wrapped up in a meaningless conversation. You know the ones, where you're discussing the best keyboard switches or how the new superhero movie is doing. The kind of conversations you become aware of after you've spent too much time participating and your first thought is _Wait, how long have I been talking about this???_ I have a post-it note on my monitor that says "How long?". It helps me bow out of potentially long-running conversations a lot sooner.

#### Git for standups
Working on a lot of different tasks can get confusing. By the time stand-up rolls around in the morning I've totally forgotten what I worked on the day before. This is where branching and a nice little git command alias really save my ass.

When I start on a feature or bug, I usually branch with some sort of descriptive branch name instead of the ticket or bug id. I do this for each issue I start working on, so if I work on three issues in a day I'll have three branches in git. However, this doesn't help me get ready for standup.

This is where [my gitconfig aliases](http://github.com/codeimpossible/gitconfig) become really helpful, especially the `act` alias. Act is short for **activity**. Act lists the branches I've been working on in order of last commit date DESC. Here is a sample:

    $ some-project [featurea +0 ~3 -0]> git act
      xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx commit refs/heads/featurea
      xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx commit refs/heads/utf8-blog-posts
      xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx commit refs/heads/new-landing-page
      xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx commit refs/heads/advertising-on-comments
      xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx commit refs/heads/gravatar
      xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx commit refs/heads/master

So from this list I can go into standup and let everyone know what I've been working on. Granted it's not perfect, the dates are missing, but I can figure out pretty quickly which tasks were the ones from yesterday.

I hope some of these tips are helpful to others, it's taken me a long time to realize each of these problems and figure out easy ways to work through them, if you have any tips or beter ways to deal with the things I've mentioned please share them in the comments!!
